docs(community-wallets): add developer guide for community wallets (#1040)
midnightntwrk/midnight-docs: sdks/community/wallets/wallets-overview.mdx

copyright: This file is part of midnight-docs. Copyright (C) Midnight Foundation. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: Overview

> description: Choosing and integrating community wallets on the Midnight Network — a custody × interface model, per-wallet profiles, DApp Connector integration code, and a CLI/agent dev workflow.

Reviewer: The description contains an em-dash and exceeds 160 characters. Trim to 120–160 chars for SEO.

```suggestion
description: "Guide to choosing and integrating community wallets on the Midnight Network, with a custody-interface model and DApp Connector code."
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

title: Community wallets

> tags: [community, wallets, integration]

Reviewer: Only 3 tags. Aim for 5–10 relevant terms.

```suggestion
tags: [community, wallets, integration, dapp-connector, custody, self-custody, lace, 1am, proving, mcp]
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

:::

## Choosing and integrating a wallet

This guide helps you choose and integrate a wallet on the Midnight Network for a DApp, a backend, an agent, or personal use. It organizes the wallet landscape into a **custody x interface** model so you can match your scenario to the right wallet, and the per-wallet profiles plus the [integration guide](./integration.mdx) give you the code to ship it.

> Midnight is a Cardano partnerchain built by IOG: a dual ledger (public *unshielded* plus private *shielded* state), two tokens (**NIGHT** for value, **DUST** for fees), and **Compact** smart contracts that compile to zero-knowledge circuits. This guide assumes you know those basics. Prefer video? See the [Lace and 1AM walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m7mU7k5lgqU) (Edda Labs).

Reviewer: "This guide assumes you know those basics. Prefer video?" is throat-clearing. The reader either knows or does not; telling them you assume it adds nothing. "Prefer video?" is chatty. Keep the link, cut the filler.

```suggestion
Midnight is a Cardano partnerchain built by IOG: a dual ledger (public *unshielded* plus private *shielded* state), two tokens (**NIGHT** for value, **DUST** for fees), and **Compact** smart contracts that compile to zero-knowledge circuits. For a video walkthrough, see the [Lace and 1AM demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m7mU7k5lgqU) (Edda Labs).
```

Author: Done — applied your suggestion; dropped the "assumes you know" / "Prefer video?" framing. (04141105)

:::

## Quick answer

For most projects the decision is simple, because nearly every Midnight wallet today is self-custody and the only real choice is *how you reach it*:

- **Browser DApp:** integrate **1AM and Lace** through the [DApp Connector](./integration.mdx).
- **Backend, CI, or AI agents:** use the [wallet CLI](./cli-and-mcp.mdx#develop-and-test-without-a-wallet) (`midnight serve` and its MCP server).
- **Institutional custody of NIGHT:** **Fireblocks** (see [Broader ecosystem](./reference.mdx#broader-ecosystem-compatibility)).

Then refine by need:

- **Privacy by default:** **1AM** (shielded by default, in-browser proving).
- **Mobile-first or embedded wallet:** **Kuira** (Android SDK, on-device proving; see [Kuira](#kuira)).
- **One multi-chain wallet:** **Ctrl** (feature-detect its connector).
- **Consumer wallet of the future:** **Midnight Passport** (announced; see [Midnight Passport](#midnight-passport-announced)).
- **urble** is a consumer privacy-savings app, not a DApp-integration target.

> The rest of this page explains the model behind those picks; the matrix and per-wallet profiles below are the detail.

Reviewer: "The rest of this page explains the model behind those picks" is a sentence about the document rather than for the reader. The headings already navigate.

```suggestion
```

Author: Done — removed the self-referential "the rest of this page" sentence. (04141105)

## The custody and interface model

> Ask **two questions** about any wallet and you have placed it on the map: *who controls the keys* (custody, the trust axis) and *how is it reached* (interface, the access axis). The axes are independent, a self-custody key can be reached from a browser, a CLI, or an agent, which is why a grid fits and why one wallet often spans several cells.

Reviewer: Comma splice: "The axes are independent, a self-custody key..." joins two independent clauses with a comma.

```suggestion
Ask **two questions** about any wallet and you have placed it on the map: *who controls the keys* (custody, the trust axis) and *how is it reached* (interface, the access axis). The axes are independent: a self-custody key can be reached from a browser, a CLI, or an agent. That is why a grid fits, and why one wallet often spans several cells.
```

Author: Done — applied the rewrite; the comma splice is now a colon plus a separate sentence. (04141105)

The custody rows line up with Midnight's three-point custody spectrum like this:

| Matrix custody row | Midnight spectrum | Example on Midnight |
|---|---|---|
| Self-custody | Full Sovereignty | Lace, 1AM, Kuira |
| Custodial | Delegated | (none for consumers yet) |
| Smart contract / AA | n/a (not native) | n/a |
| MPC / threshold | Smart Custody | Fireblocks (NIGHT) |

### The four custody models

- **Self-custody (keys on the user's device).** The key lives in the extension, mobile secure storage, or hardware; no third party can sign. Full control and privacy, but losing the seed phrase loses the funds. This is where almost every Midnight wallet lives today (Lace, 1AM, Kuira, Ctrl, Gero, SubWallet, NuFi). Maps to **Full Sovereignty**.
- **Custodial (a provider holds the keys).** An exchange or fintech signs on the user's behalf: easy onboarding, but counterparty risk and no privacy from the provider. No first-party consumer custodial wallet is documented on Midnight yet; the path today is institutional (MPC, below) plus exchange or Wallet-IaaS provisioning as the network matures. Maps to **Delegated**.

> - **Smart contract / Account Abstraction (the account is a contract).** Programmable authorization (multisig, social recovery, session keys). Midnight has **no native ERC-4337-style AA today**; its programmability lives in Compact contracts, which is orthogonal to account-level abstraction. AA-like UX can be approximated with the connector's relayer (sponsored fees) or an embedded SDK such as [Kuira](#kuira), but none of these is a smart contract account.

Reviewer: Three sentences explaining why an empty row is empty, with ERC-4337 and Safe references. Round 1 asked for single-line treatment for non-existent features.

```suggestion
- **Smart contract / Account Abstraction (the account is a contract).** Programmable authorization (multisig, social recovery, session keys). Midnight has no native account abstraction; this row is empty.
```

Author: Done — collapsed the smart contract / AA item to the single suggested line. (04141105)

| Custody ↓ / Interface → | Browser | Mobile native | CLI (SDK / CI) | MCP (AI agents) |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Self-custody** (keys on device) | **Available:** Lace, 1AM, Ctrl, Gero, SubWallet, NuFi | **Available:** 1AM (beta), urble, Kuira (Android, alpha) | **Available:** midnight-wallet-cli (`midnight serve`) | **Available:** midnight-wallet-cli MCP server |
| **Custodial** (provider holds keys) | **Not yet** (*CEX web wallets*) | **Not yet** (*CEX apps*) | **Not yet** (*exchange custody APIs*) | **Not yet** (*provider agent tooling*) |
| **Smart contract / AA** (account is a contract) | **Not yet** (*Safe, ERC-4337*) | **Not yet** | **Not yet** | **Not yet** |
| **MPC / threshold** (key split into shares) | **Emerging:** *Midnight Passport* (announced, seedless; see [Midnight Passport](#midnight-passport-announced)); institutional console | **Emerging:** *Midnight Passport* (announced) | **Emerging (institutional):** Fireblocks; Dynamic (TSS-MPC; Midnight *not documented*) | **Emerging:** MPC plus agent custody (*industry*) |

> **Reading the grid:** the **entire self-custody row is live today**, reachable from browser, mobile, CLI, and AI agents; most DApps target **Self-custody × Browser** (and Mobile). The **AA row is empty** (no native smart accounts). The **MPC row is mostly institutional** (Fireblocks), with one *consumer* entry on the way, **Midnight Passport** (full technical details are not yet public; see [Midnight Passport](#midnight-passport-announced)). **Empty cells are a roadmap**, not a dead end.

Reviewer: "Empty cells are a roadmap, not a dead end" reads like promotional copy. The grid communicates this visually.

```suggestion
**Reading the grid:** the **entire self-custody row is live today**, reachable from browser, mobile, CLI, and AI agents; most DApps target **Self-custody × Browser** (and Mobile). The **AA row is empty** (no native smart accounts). The **MPC row is mostly institutional** (Fireblocks), with one *consumer* entry on the way, **Midnight Passport** (full technical details are not yet public; see [Midnight Passport](#midnight-passport-announced)).
```

Author: Done — applied the "Reading the grid" rewrite and dropped the "roadmap, not a dead end" line. (04141105)

:::note[The ecosystem evolves quickly]

For the current state of wallet and custody support, see the live [ecosystem catalog](https://midnight.network/ecosystem-catalog) (use the [institutional-custody](https://midnight.network/ecosystem-catalog?tag=institutional-custody) tag for the custody/MPC slice).

:::

## Reading a wallet as a coverage footprint

**A wallet is a set of cells, not a point.** The cells it fills show *who can use it and how*; the empty cells show what it will not do. One consolidated view of the wallets with a distinct footprint:

| Wallet | Browser | Mobile | CLI | MCP |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Lace | Yes (Chrome/Edge) | No (Midnight; Cardano-side only) | No | No |
| 1AM | Yes (Chrome/Firefox) | Beta (iOS/Android) | No | No |
| Kuira | No | Yes (Android, alpha) | No | No |
| midnight-wallet-cli | No | No | Yes (`midnight serve`) | Yes (31-tool MCP server) |

> Read it as shape, not score. **1AM** spans the human interfaces (browser plus mobile), private by default. **Lace** is a focused desktop default; its mobile and hardware reach is Cardano-side, so pair it with the wallet CLI for automation. **Kuira** is a wallet that ships *inside* an Android app (on-device proving, passkey identity, no separate install), an SDK you build into a mobile app rather than a tile you connect to. **midnight-wallet-cli** is not a consumer wallet at all: it is how scripts, CI, and agents hold and move funds, covered in the [CLI and MCP workflow](./cli-and-mcp.mdx).

Reviewer: "Read it as shape, not score" is pithy but opaque on first scan. Say what you mean directly.

```suggestion
Compare which cells each wallet covers, not how many. **1AM** spans the human interfaces (browser plus mobile), private by default. **Lace** is a focused desktop default; its mobile and hardware reach is Cardano-side, so pair it with the wallet CLI for automation. **Kuira** is a wallet that ships *inside* an Android app (on-device proving, passkey identity, no separate install), an SDK you build into a mobile app rather than a tile you connect to. **midnight-wallet-cli** is not a consumer wallet at all: it is how scripts, CI, and agents hold and move funds, covered in the [CLI and MCP workflow](./cli-and-mcp.mdx).
```

Author: Done — replaced "read it as shape, not score" with "Compare which cells each wallet covers, not how many." (04141105)

:::tip[Takeaway]

Sketch the footprint before comparing features: *where* a wallet sits and *how far* it reaches answers most of "is this right for my scenario?". The [functionality matrix](./reference.mdx#functionality-matrix) is for the tie-breakers.

:::

## Choose by scenario

Answer two questions, land on a cell, and pick a wallet whose footprint covers it.

> **Who controls the keys?** end user → **Self-custody**; provider → **Custodial** (*not on Midnight for consumers*); institution or DAO → **MPC**; programmable account → **AA** (*not native yet*). **Who reaches it?** person in a browser → **Browser**; on a phone → **Mobile**; script or CI → **CLI**; AI agent → **MCP**.

Reviewer: Lines 122-123 pack 8 decisions into 2 sentences. The ASCII tree below communicates this more scannably. Cut the dense inline version.

```suggestion
The same questions as a quick decision tree:
```

Author: Done — cut the dense inline-decisions paragraph; the decision tree below now carries it. (04141105)

## The wallets

Each entry opens with a **Footprint** (which matrix cells it covers). Lace, 1AM, and Kuira get the full treatment; non-integration wallets are compact cards. Feature status lives in the [functionality matrix](./reference.mdx#functionality-matrix); integration gotchas in [Where wallets diverge](./integration.mdx#where-wallets-diverge); errors in [Troubleshooting](./reference.mdx#troubleshooting-and-error-reference).

The profiled wallets fall into three product categories:

| Category | Wallets | What it means for you |
|---|---|---|
| **Midnight-native** | 1AM, urble, Kuira | Built for Midnight's dual-state / ZK model, shielded-capable. 1AM has the browser dev-integration story; urble is an end-user app; [Kuira](#kuira) is mobile (Android) plus an embeddable SDK. |
| **Cardano multi-chain + Midnight** | Lace, Ctrl, Gero | Established wallets adding Midnight. Lace is the IOG reference; Ctrl and Gero are third-party. |

> | **Embedded / Wallet-as-a-Service (WaaS)** | Dynamic, Kuira | An SDK you embed to mint wallets. Dynamic is social/passkey WaaS with Midnight support not first-party documented; [Kuira](#kuira) is a Midnight-native, self-custody Android SDK. |

Reviewer: [SUGGESTION] Dynamic is listed under "Embedded / WaaS" alongside Kuira, but the Broader ecosystem section says it has "no first-party Midnight support." Listing it here at the same level gives it unearned prominence. Consider removing it from this categories table.

Author: Done — removed Dynamic from the categories table (kept a one-line pointer to Broader ecosystem). (04141105)

### Gero

> **Footprint:** Self-custody × **Browser** plus **Mobile**; Midnight integration **announced / in progress**. **What:** a privacy-focused Cardano multi-chain wallet (Gero Dashboard, blog Apr 2025) with a "**zkFiat**" roadmap; a valid **Glacier Drop / NIGHT claim** wallet on the Cardano side. Its Midnight page advertises ZK proofs, shielded transactions, selective disclosure, and "anonymous staking", but **does not yet mention NIGHT/DUST or the Midnight connector, and gives no live date**; these are **vendor-stated**, pending public documentation. **For DApps?** Use as a **NIGHT claim** wallet today, not a tested connector. **Links:** [Midnight page](https://gerowallet.io/midnight-wallet/), [Glacier Drop](https://www.midnight.gd/news/glacier-drop-wallets-and-address-type-compatibility).

> ### Midnight Passport (announced)

Reviewer: [MAJOR] Midnight Passport gets ~400 words and 3 bullet points for a product that is "announced, not yet live" with "full technical specifications have not yet been published." This is disproportionate compared to urble (1 line) and Gero (1 paragraph). Collapse to a compact card of the same format.

Author: Done — collapsed Midnight Passport to a compact card matching the urble / Gero format. (04141105)

:::

> ## Choosing and integrating a wallet — a developer's guide

Reviewer: Em-dash in heading.

```suggestion
## Choosing and integrating a wallet
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

> 

Reviewer: **This page is ~1,000 lines covering 14 sections.** That is too much for a single docs page. Developers scan; they don't read sequentially.

Consider splitting into 3-4 focused pages under `sdks/community/wallets/`:
- **Overview** (current sections 1-4): matrix model, choose-by-scenario, wallet cards
- **Integration guide** (section 5): DApp Connector code, proving, fees
- **CLI and MCP reference** (sections 8-9): developer workflow, agent tooling
- **Reference** (sections 7, 10-14): feature matrix, troubleshooting, security, glossary

Each page would be 200-300 lines, scannable, and independently useful.

Author: Done — the guide is now split into four pages under `sdks/community/wallets/`: **Overview** (model, coverage footprint, choose-by-scenario, profiles), **Integration** (DApp Connector), **CLI and MCP**, and **Reference** (matrix, troubleshooting, security, ecosystem, glossary). (`253ec67`)

A reference for choosing and integrating a wallet on the Midnight Network — for a dApp, a backend, an
agent, or personal use. Instead of just listing wallets, it gives you a **mental model** for the whole
landscape (a **custody × interface matrix**), shows which cells each wallet covers (its *coverage
footprint*), and lets you pick by *scenario* — then keeps the per-wallet detail and integration code as

> reference.

Reviewer: Several em-dashes in this paragraph. Replace with commas, periods, or parentheses.

```suggestion
A reference for choosing and integrating a wallet on the Midnight Network for a DApp, a backend, an
agent, or personal use. Instead of just listing wallets, it gives you a **mental model** for the whole
landscape (a **custody x interface matrix**), shows which cells each wallet covers (its *coverage
footprint*), and lets you pick by *scenario*, then keeps the per-wallet detail and integration code as
reference.
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

> reference.

Reviewer: The intro is self-referential ("it gives you a mental model", "shows which cells", "lets you pick"). State what the reader will learn, not what the document does.

```suggestion
This guide helps you choose and integrate a wallet on the Midnight Network for a DApp, a backend, an
agent, or personal use. It organizes the wallet landscape into a **custody x interface matrix** so you
can match your scenario to the right wallet, then provides the integration code to ship it.
```

Author: Rewritten to be reader-focused ("This guide helps you…") instead of describing the document. (`253ec67`)

Midnight is a Cardano partnerchain built by IOG: a dual ledger (public *unshielded* + private
*shielded* state), two tokens (**NIGHT** for value, **DUST** for fees), and **Compact** smart contracts
that compile to zero-knowledge circuits. This guide assumes you know those basics. Prefer video? See the
[Lace & 1AM walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m7mU7k5lgqU) (Edda Labs).

| | |
|---|---|
| **Guide version** | v1 — 2026-06 |
| **DApp Connector API** | `@midnight-ntwrk/dapp-connector-api` **v4.0.1** |
| **Local proof server** | `http://localhost:6300` (Lace); CLI connector on `ws://localhost:9932` |
| **Networks** | `mainnet`, `preview`, `preprod`, `undeployed` (local) — only `'mainnet'` is connector-standard; other ids are wallet-defined ([§5.2](#52-connect-and-the-connectedapi-surface)) |

:::tip[Start here]

In practice, today's decision collapses to a **single custody row — self-custody** —

> because the other three models (custodial, smart-contract/AA, MPC) are barely populated on Midnight yet;

Reviewer: Em-dashes in tip block.

```suggestion
In practice, today's decision collapses to a **single custody row, self-custody,**
because the other three models (custodial, smart-contract/AA, MPC) are barely populated on Midnight yet;
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

you only choose *how to reach it*: a **browser**, the **CLI**, or an **AI agent**. So: for a
**browser dApp**, integrate **1AM + Lace** via the DApp Connector. For **backend / CI / agents**, use
the **wallet CLI** (`midnight serve` + its MCP server). For **institutional** custody of NIGHT,
**Fireblocks**. Everything else is a variant of those.

- **Privacy by default?** **1AM** (shielded-by-default, in-browser proving).
- **Mobile-first / embedded wallet?** **Kuira** (Android SDK, on-device proving — [§6](#kuira)).

> - **One multi-chain wallet?** **Ctrl** (feature-detect its connector).

Reviewer: **This tip block undermines the page structure.** It says "today's decision collapses to a single custody row" and then gives the full answer in 10 lines. If the practical answer fits in a tip box, the 14-section framework underneath is overbuilt for the current ecosystem.

Two options:
1. **Lead with this guidance** as the main content (not a tip), then provide the matrix as optional depth.
2. **Cut the tip** and let the structure speak for itself.

Option 1 is stronger. Most readers arrive with a scenario ("I'm building a browser DApp"), not a desire to learn a taxonomy.

Author: Went with option 1 — the practical guidance now leads as a **Quick answer** section, with the matrix kept as optional depth below it. (`253ec67`)

- **Consumer wallet of the future?** **Midnight Passport** (announced — [§6](#midnight-passport-announced)).
- **urble** is a consumer privacy-savings app, not a dApp-integration target.

:::

:::note[Freshness]

The Midnight wallet ecosystem evolves quickly — some integrations are newly launched and
others are **announced** or **not yet publicly documented**, and this guide labels them as such. Details
are accurate as of **June 2026**; for the latest, follow the linked [Sources](#sources) and the
[Midnight forum](https://forum.midnight.network/).

:::

---

## 1. How to read this guide

Ask **two questions** about any wallet and you've placed it on the map:

1. **Custody — who controls the keys?** (the *trust* axis) On the user's device, held by a provider,
   governed by a contract, or split into shares?
2. **Interface — how is it reached?** (the *access* axis) A human in a **browser** or **mobile** app, an

>    automation via **CLI/SDK**, or an **AI agent** via **MCP**?

Reviewer: Em-dashes in list items. Use colons or commas instead.

```suggestion
1. **Custody: who controls the keys?** (the *trust* axis) On the user's device, held by a provider,
   governed by a contract, or split into shares?
2. **Interface: how is it reached?** (the *access* axis) A human in a **browser** or **mobile** app, an
   automation via **CLI/SDK**, or an **AI agent** via **MCP**?
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

Put those on a grid → a **4 × 4 matrix** ([§2](#2-the-mental-model-custody-and-interface)). Every wallet

> fills **one or more cells** — its *coverage footprint* ([§3](#3-reading-a-wallet-as-a-coverage-footprint)).

Reviewer: **Numbered section references read like an academic paper, not developer docs.** Developers navigate via sidebar headings and search, not section numbers. Every `[SS5](#5-integrate)` is noise.

Replace numbered references with descriptive links:
- `[SS5](#5-integrate)` becomes `[integration guide](#integrate)`
- `[SS8](#8-develop-and-test-without-a-wallet)` becomes `[CLI workflow](#develop-and-test-without-a-wallet)`

Drop the numbers from headings: `## 1. How to read this guide` becomes `## How to read this guide`.

Author: Dropped the section numbers from all headings and replaced the §N references with descriptive cross-page links. (`253ec67`)

| **Cardano multi-chain + Midnight** | Lace, Ctrl, Gero | Established wallets bolting on Midnight. Lace is the IOG reference; Ctrl/Gero are third-party. |
| **Embedded / Wallet-as-a-Service (WaaS)** | Dynamic, Kuira | An SDK you embed to mint wallets. Dynamic is social/passkey **WaaS** (Wallet-as-a-Service) with Midnight support **not first-party documented** ([§6](#dynamic)); **Kuira** is a Midnight-native, self-custody Android SDK ([§6](#kuira)). |

Building a **browser** dApp? The connectors you can target today are **Lace** and **1AM** (Ctrl connects
per its own claims; Gero/others appear in the ecosystem catalog).

---

## 2. The mental model: custody and interface

### 2.1 Why two axes

- **Custody (rows) = the trust model.** *Where do the keys live, and who can sign?* This decides what can
  go wrong and who is in control. It maps onto Midnight's custody spectrum —
  **Full Sovereignty → Delegated → Smart Custody**.
- **Interface (columns) = how the wallet is reached.** The first two are how **humans** interact

>   (browser, mobile); the third is how we **automate** (CLI/SDK); the fourth is how **AI agents** act

Reviewer: **Section 2 over-explains the framework.** "Why two axes" + "The four custody models" + "The four interfaces" + "The matrix" is four subsections of preamble before the reader sees the actual grid.

Collapse 2.1 into a single sentence at the top:

> Every wallet sits at the intersection of *who controls the keys* (custody) and *how the wallet is reached* (interface).

Then show the matrix directly. The current structure teaches a taxonomy before letting readers use it.

Author: Collapsed the "why two axes" preamble into a one-line lead, then go straight to the matrix. (`253ec67`)

  (MCP). Same keys, different access patterns and threat models.

The axes are independent — a self-custody key can be reached from a browser, a CLI, or an agent — which
is why a grid fits, and why one wallet often spans several cells.

The four custody rows line up with Midnight's three-point custody spectrum like this:

| Matrix custody row | Midnight spectrum | Example on Midnight |
|---|---|---|
| Self-custody | Full Sovereignty | Lace, 1AM, Kuira |
| Custodial | Delegated | (none for consumers yet) |
| Smart-contract / AA | — (not native) | — |

> | MPC / threshold | Smart Custody | Fireblocks (NIGHT) |

Reviewer: "Smart-contract" should be two words, no hyphen. Also applies on lines 136, 143, and 181.

```suggestion
| Smart contract / AA | n/a (not native) | n/a |
| MPC / threshold | Smart Custody | Fireblocks (NIGHT) |
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

### 2.2 The four custody models

**1. Self-custody — keys on the user's device.** Key lives in the extension / mobile secure storage /
hardware; no third party can sign. *Trust yourself.* Full control and privacy; lose the seed phrase, lose
the funds. **On Midnight:** where almost every wallet lives today (Lace, 1AM, Ctrl, Gero, SubWallet,

> NuFi…). Maps to **Full Sovereignty**.

Reviewer: Em-dashes. Use periods or commas.

```suggestion
**1. Self-custody: keys on the user's device.** Key lives in the extension, mobile secure storage, or
hardware. No third party can sign. *Trust yourself.* Full control and privacy; lose the seed phrase, lose
the funds. **On Midnight:** where almost every wallet lives today (Lace, 1AM, Ctrl, Gero, SubWallet,
NuFi). Maps to **Full Sovereignty**.
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

**2. Custodial — a provider holds the keys.** An exchange/fintech signs on the user's behalf. *Trust the
custodian* (single point of failure); easy onboarding, counterparty risk, no privacy from the provider.
**On Midnight:** no first-party *consumer* custodial wallet documented yet; the custodial path today is
institutional (MPC, below) + exchange/Wallet-IaaS (managed wallet provisioning — the same idea as WaaS) as

> the network matures. *(An emerging area on Midnight.)*

Reviewer: Em-dashes. Use periods or commas.

```suggestion
**2. Custodial: a provider holds the keys.** An exchange/fintech signs on the user's behalf. *Trust the
custodian* (single point of failure); easy onboarding, counterparty risk, no privacy from the provider.
**On Midnight:** no first-party *consumer* custodial wallet documented yet; the custodial path today is
institutional (MPC, below) + exchange/Wallet-IaaS (managed wallet provisioning, the same idea as WaaS) as
the network matures. *(An emerging area on Midnight.)*
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

**3. Smart-contract / Account Abstraction (AA) — the account is a contract.** Programmable authorization
(multisig, social recovery, session keys, sponsored fees). *Trust the contract code.* **On Midnight:**
**no native ERC-4337-style AA today** — Midnight's programmability lives in **Compact contracts** + its
dual-state privacy model, which is *orthogonal* to account-level abstraction. So this row is **Not yet on
Midnight** *(illustrative: Safe, ERC-4337)*. Some AA-*like* UX can still be approximated, though. Sponsored
fees come via the connector's relayer, and social login via embedded wallets (Wallet-IaaS / [Dynamic](#dynamic)).
An **embedded-SDK** approach — where the app itself carries a self-custody wallet ([Kuira](#kuira)) — gives a
similar "no separate wallet, no seed" feel. But **none of these is a smart-contract account**, so the row
stays *Not yet*.

**4. MPC / threshold — the key is split into shares.** No single share signs; an *m*-of-*n* quorum
produces the signature without reconstructing a full key. *Trust distributed across shareholders;*
institutional-grade governance. **On Midnight:** the **institutional** path — **Fireblocks** (MPC-based)

> announced custody of **NIGHT**, letting clients securely claim/hold it (e.g. during the Glacier Drop —

Reviewer: **Items 3 and 4 spend ~20 lines describing things that don't exist on Midnight.** The smart contract/AA paragraph explains why a row is empty with references to ERC-4337, Safe, and Ethereum. The MPC paragraph discusses Fireblocks's Glacier Drop role.

For custody models that are "Not yet" or "Emerging," a single line in the matrix table is enough. These lengthy explanations add length without helping a developer choose or integrate a wallet today.

Author: Trimmed the smart contract/AA and MPC write-ups to a single line each; the detail now lives only in the matrix. (`253ec67`)

and AI agents; most dApps target **Self-custody × Browser** (and Mobile). The **AA
row is empty** (no native smart accounts). The **MPC row is mostly institutional** (Fireblocks), with one
*consumer* entry on the way — **Midnight Passport** (its full technical details are not yet public;
[§6](#midnight-passport-announced)). **Empty cells are a roadmap**, not a dead end.

:::note[The ecosystem evolves quickly]

For the current state of wallet and custody support, see the live
[ecosystem catalog](https://midnight.network/ecosystem-catalog) (use the
[institutional-custody](https://midnight.network/ecosystem-catalog?tag=institutional-custody) tag for
the custody/MPC slice).

:::

---

## 3. Reading a wallet as a coverage footprint

**A wallet is a set of cells, not a point.** Scan the cells it fills and you see *who can use it and how*;
the empty cells tell you what it won't do. Three contrasting footprints:

**1AM — a person's wallet** (human interfaces, private by default)

| Custody \ Interface | Browser | Mobile | CLI | MCP |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Self-custody** | ✓ (Chrome/Firefox) | ✓ beta (iOS/Android) | — | — |

> → "a consumer + dApp wallet for desktop and phone, shielded by default." (Drivable from code via the

Reviewer: "dApp" should be "DApp" (capital D, capital A). This applies to ~24 instances throughout the file. The ones in URLs and package names (like `dapp-connector-api`) should stay lowercase since those are actual identifiers.

```suggestion
**midnight-wallet-cli — the automation & agent footprint**
```

Author: Applied in the round-1 style pass (em-dash / DApp / smart contract fixes and the four-page split). Commits 253ec67, 730a0c8.

connector, but no first-party CLI/MCP.)

**midnight-wallet-cli — the automation & agent footprint**

| Custody \ Interface | Browser | Mobile | CLI | MCP |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Self-custody** | — | — | ✓ commands + `midnight serve` | ✓ 31-tool MCP server (contract deploy/call + spend confirmation) |

→ "not a consumer wallet — it's how scripts, CI, and agents hold and move funds." One network-agnostic
seed serves all networks. Reach for it in [§8](#8-develop-and-test-without-a-wallet) and
[§9](#9-ai-and-agent-tooling-the-mcp-column).

**Lace — a focused reference footprint**

| Custody \ Interface | Browser | Mobile | CLI | MCP |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Self-custody** | ✓ (Chrome/Edge) | — *(Cardano only)* | — | — |

→ "the safe desktop default; its mobile/hardware reach is Cardano-side — pair it with the wallet CLI for
automation." Narrow isn't bad: it tells you exactly where Lace fits.

**Kuira — a mobile footprint shipped as an embeddable SDK** (the wallet apps carry inside themselves)

| Custody \ Interface | Browser | Mobile | CLI | MCP |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| **Self-custody** | — | ✓ Android (alpha) | — | — |

> 

Reviewer: **Four separate mini-tables to illustrate "coverage footprint" is excessive.** The concept (a wallet covers multiple cells) is intuitive and doesn't need 40+ lines of scaffolding.

Replace the four individual tables with one consolidated view:

| Wallet | Browser | Mobile | CLI | MCP |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Lace | Yes | No (Midnight) | No | No |
| 1AM | Yes | Beta | No | No |
| wallet-CLI | No | No | Yes | Yes |
| Kuira | No | Alpha (Android) | No | No |

This communicates the same information in 1/4 the space and lets readers compare directly.

Author: Consolidated the four footprint tables into one Wallet × interface table (and fixed the duplicated heading and stray fragment that were there). (`253ec67`)

// 2. Connect — MUST be synchronous in the click handler (pop-up blocking)
//    networkId: only 'mainnet' is standard; others are wallet-defined (CLI uses 'Preview' etc.)
async function connect(w: InitialAPI, networkId = "preprod"): Promise<ConnectedAPI> {
  const api = await w.connect(networkId);             // user authorizes here
  const status = await api.getConnectionStatus();
  if (status.status !== "connected") throw new Error("wallet disconnected");
  setNetworkId(status.networkId);                     // align the dApp to the wallet's network
  return api;
}
// To submit: build the tx (api.makeTransfer / your contract), prove (feature-detect
// api.getProvingProvider, else local proof server), then api.submitTransaction(tx).
```

**Where wallets diverge — handle these:**

- **Proving** — feature-detect `getProvingProvider`; 1AM has it, **Lace doesn't** (fall back to the local
  proof server; don't hard-code the deprecated `proverServerUri`).
- **`signData`** — not on Lace; feature-detect before signature-based auth.
- **Pop-up** — Lace opens an auth pop-up (keep `connect()` synchronous); the reconnect path has no

>   gesture, so poll `window.midnight` then connect.

Reviewer: **This "Where wallets diverge" list repeats information already in sections 5.2 and 5.3.** The Lace `getProvingProvider` gap appears on lines 351, 373, 419, 478, and 819 (five times total). The pop-up gotcha appears on lines 356-363 and 421-423.

State each fact once authoritatively (in the Lace profile or the proving section), then link from elsewhere. Repeating the same caveats erodes trust in the document's organization.

Author: De-duplicated — the Lace `getProvingProvider` caveat is now stated once on the Integration page ("Where ZK proofs come from" / "Where wallets diverge") and linked from the profiles and troubleshooting. (`253ec67`)

- **Network** — always reconcile the dApp to `getConnectionStatus().networkId`.
- **DUST** — read `getDustBalance()`, handle `{ balance: 0n }` and the `cap`; don't assume sponsored fees.
- **Non-standard tiles** — Ctrl/Gero may not inject a conformant connector; feature-detect and degrade to
  Lace/1AM.

### 5.6 React (the production pattern)

The Edda Labs **midnight-starter-template** (demo at `counter.nebula.builders`) wires Lace + 1AM through a
copy-pasteable wallet-widget — use it rather than re-deriving:

```tsx
import { useWallet } from "@/modules/midnight/wallet-widget/hooks/useWallet";

function ConnectButton() {
  const { connectWallet, disconnect, status, dustBalance } = useWallet();
  if (status?.status === "connected")
    return <button onClick={() => disconnect()}>Connected · DUST {String(dustBalance?.balance)}</button>;
  return <button onClick={() => connectWallet("mnLace", "preprod")}>Connect Lace</button>;
}
```

Key files in the repo, under `frontend-vite-react/src/modules/midnight/`: `wallet-widget/api/walletController.ts`

> (discovery + pop-up-safe connect + proof-server check), `wallet-widget/hooks/useWallet.ts` +

Reviewer: **Remove the Mesh SDK reference.** Mesh SDK is not maintained for Midnight and is being removed from the docs.

```suggestion
([starter template](https://github.com/eddalabs/midnight-starter-template),
[React guide](https://docs.midnight.network/guides/react-wallet-connect))
```

Author: Removed both Mesh SDK references. (`253ec67`)

`contexts/wallet.tsx` (state), `wallet-widget/ui/midnightWallet.tsx` (connect modal), `counter-sdk/`
(wiring a connected wallet into a Compact call).
([starter template](https://github.com/eddalabs/midnight-starter-template),
[React guide](https://docs.midnight.network/guides/react-wallet-connect),
[Mesh SDK](https://meshjs.dev/midnight/midnight-setup/wallet))

---

## 6. The wallets

Each entry opens with a **Footprint** (which matrix cells it covers). Lace, 1AM, and Kuira get the full
treatment; non-integration wallets are compact cards. Feature status lives in the [matrix](#7-functionality-matrix);
integration gotchas in [§5.5](#55-integrate-the-portable-code); errors in
[§10](#10-troubleshooting-and-error-reference).

> ### Lace

Reviewer: **"Verdict" is editorial, not informational.** Lines like "the best Midnight-native developer + privacy experience" (1AM, line 491) and "safest Chrome/Edge desktop default" (Lace) are subjective rankings. Official docs describe capabilities and let the reader decide.

Remove the "Verdict" line from each wallet profile.

```suggestion
### Lace

> **Footprint:** Self-custody x **Browser** (Midnight); mobile/hardware are Cardano-side only.
> **Best for:** DApps whose users can run a local proof server.
> **Status:** live; partial `ConnectedAPI` (no `getProvingProvider`/`signData` yet). **Open source:** yes.
```

Author: Removed the Verdict line; the Lace profile lists capabilities only now. (`253ec67`)

  `window.midnight.mnLace`.
- **Doesn't (yet):** no in-browser proving (**local proof server required**); **`getProvingProvider()` /
  `signData()` not implemented** → feature-detect and fall back ([§5.5](#55-integrate-the-portable-code)).
- **Known issues:** `getProvingProvider` ([lace#2224](https://github.com/input-output-hk/lace/issues),
  [forum/1213](https://forum.midnight.network/t/lace-wallet-doesnt-implement-getprovingprovider-expected-behavior-or-version-gap/1213));
  `signData` ([lace#2165](https://github.com/input-output-hk/lace/issues)); some 2.0 builds block shielded
  transfers ([lace#2212](https://github.com/input-output-hk/lace/issues)); Firefox build too old
  ([lace#2206](https://github.com/input-output-hk/lace/issues)); large contracts can fail to deploy on
  preprod ([lace#2179](https://github.com/input-output-hk/lace/issues)); "Unable to get wallet address" =
  not-installed/not-refreshed ([forum/922](https://forum.midnight.network/t/unable-to-get-wallet-address-from-lace-wallet/922)).
  On Brave, disable Shields so the dApp can reach the local proof server. Actively maintained by **IOG**.

> ### 1AM

Reviewer: Same: remove the editorial verdict.

```suggestion
> **Footprint:** Self-custody x **Browser** + **Mobile** (beta); drivable from code via the connector.
> **Best for:** Midnight-first DApps; users wanting shielded-by-default + mobile.
> **Status:** live; implements `getProvingProvider` (in-browser proving). **Open source:** not published.
```

Author: Removed the Verdict line here too. (`253ec67`)

  connects to Midnight apps, but **standard-connector conformance is confirmed only at the marketing
  level** — feature-detect the injected provider at runtime before listing it
  ([§5.5](#55-integrate-the-portable-code)). No Midnight-specific SDK documented.
- **Known limitations:** Midnight privacy depth (shielded-by-default, DUST, selective disclosure,
  proving) is **not individually documented** — don't promise it without testing. Not open source.

### urble

> **Footprint:** Self-custody × **Mobile**. **What:** a consumer privacy-savings app on Midnight
> (shielded send/receive + selective disclosure; rule-based savings *announced*), built by **Brick
> Towers**. **For dApps?** No — not a connector target; use 1AM for mobile. **Open source:** not
> documented. **Links:** [Brick Towers](https://bricktowers.io/solutions/urble-the-future-of-personal-savings/).

### Dynamic

> **Footprint:** MPC (TSS) × **embedded SDK** — **no documented Midnight support**. **What:** an
> embedded-wallet / WaaS + auth product (social/passkey login, TSS-MPC keys, gas sponsorship). Its
> documented chains (EVM, Solana, Bitcoin, Sui, …) **don't list Midnight/Cardano**; it appears as

> > `dynamic_xyz` in the catalog but there's **no first-party Midnight support** as of June 2026. **For

Reviewer: **If Dynamic has no documented Midnight support, it should not be profiled here.** This entry spends 8 lines explaining why Dynamic *doesn't* work with Midnight, then tells the reader not to use it.

Either:
1. Remove it entirely and mention it in one line under "Broader ecosystem" (section 12)
2. Or keep it only if there is a concrete integration path

Including it at the same level as Lace and 1AM implies parity that does not exist.

Author: Removed the Dynamic profile; it's now a single line under **Broader ecosystem compatibility** on the Reference page. (`253ec67`)

### 7.4 Developer integration

| Wallet | DApp Connector | `signData` | Dedicated SDK | dApp browser | Hardware wallet | Cardano / multi-chain | Staking |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Lace | Yes (`mnLace`) | No | No | — | Yes (Cardano) | Yes | Yes (Cardano) |
| 1AM | Yes (`'1am'`) | Not documented | Announced / Not documented | Yes | Not documented | No | Not documented |
| Kuira | Not documented | Not documented | Yes (Android, public docs) | — | Not documented | No | Not documented |
| urble | No | Not documented | No | No | Not documented | No | No |
| Dynamic | No | Not documented | Yes (non-Midnight) | — | No | No (other chains) | No |
| Ctrl | Partial | Not documented | No | Yes | Yes (Ledger/Trezor) | Yes | Yes |
| Gero | Not documented | Not documented | No | Not documented | Not documented | Yes | Not documented |

**Key notes.** *Partial* (Ctrl) = connector stated by the vendor — feature-detect at runtime.
*Not documented* (Gero) = vendor-stated, pending public documentation; Gero is a valid Cardano-side
**NIGHT claim** wallet. *Dynamic* cells reflect its **lack of documented Midnight support**. *1AM gas

> sponsorship* is **not documented** (see the note in [§6](#1am)). *1AM "Dedicated SDK"* is

Reviewer: **The functionality matrix (4 tables, 60 lines) duplicates the wallet profiles in section 6.** Every cell is either stated in a wallet's profile or is "Not documented." A reader who read section 6 gains nothing new.

If you keep it, move it to a separate reference page. If it stays inline, collapse the four sub-tables into one and cut rows that are entirely "Not documented."

Author: Moved the functionality matrix to the Reference page so it no longer sits beside the profiles. (`253ec67`)

Authoritative current list: the [Midnight wallets docs](https://docs.midnight.network/learn/introduction/wallets/)
and the [ecosystem catalog](https://midnight.network/ecosystem-catalog) (the
[`institutional-custody`](https://midnight.network/ecosystem-catalog?tag=institutional-custody) tag for
the custody/MPC slice).

---

## 13. FAQ

- **Support many wallets with one code path?** Yes — that's the connector. Discover via `window.midnight`,
  `connect(networkId)`, use the common `ConnectedAPI`, feature-detect optional methods
  ([§5](#5-integrate)).
- **Integrate which first?** **1AM and Lace**; add others after feature-detection ([§4](#4-choose-by-scenario)).
- **Test without an extension?** `midnight serve --approve-all` + `midnight-wallet-connector`
  ([§8](#8-develop-and-test-without-a-wallet)).
- **Account abstraction / smart-contract wallets?** Not natively today
  ([§2.2](#22-the-four-custody-models)); for AA-like UX use the connector's relayer + Wallet-IaaS.
- **How do AI agents use a wallet?** Via MCP — the highest-risk cell ([§9](#9-ai-and-agent-tooling-the-mcp-column),

>   [§11](#11-security-checklist)).

Reviewer: **The FAQ repeats content from earlier sections.** Every answer is a cross-reference link. If the document is well-structured, the FAQ is unnecessary. If readers need it to navigate, the structure needs rethinking.

Consider removing this section. The "Choose by scenario" table (section 4) already serves as the quick-lookup entry point.

Author: Removed the FAQ; the new **Quick answer** and **Choose by scenario** cover the quick-lookup need. (`253ec67`)

- **Relayer** — submits a tx and pays its fees on the user's behalf (the basis of "gas sponsorship").
- **Proving provider** — the abstraction (`getProvingProvider`) for delegating ZK proving to the wallet.
- **Bech32m** — the address encoding the connector returns.
- **Local proof server** — the native binary (`localhost:6300`) that generates ZK proofs for wallets that
  don't prove in-browser.
- **Wallet-IaaS / Smart Custody** — Midnight infrastructure for delegated/embedded wallet provisioning
  (a.k.a. **Wallet-as-a-Service, WaaS**); the route for social/passkey onboarding.
- **DID (decentralized identifier)** — a self-owned identifier (e.g. `did:key:…`) not issued by a central
  authority; in Kuira a DID is derived from a passkey to form the [Sigil](#14-glossary).

---

## Changelog

- **v1 (2026-06)** — Initial release. A custody × interface matrix and coverage-footprint model for
  choosing a Midnight wallet, per-wallet profiles (Lace, 1AM, Kuira, Ctrl, urble, Dynamic, Gero, Midnight
  Passport), DApp Connector integration code, the wallet-CLI dev/agent workflow, and troubleshooting /
  security / glossary reference.
  - *Author:* **Ivan Romero** (Midnight Aliit Fellow).

>   - *Acknowledgments:* **Norman** (Midnight Aliit Fellow) — for a detailed review whose corrections and

Reviewer: **Changelog with author credits belongs in the PR description, not the published page.** Docs pages are living documents maintained by the whole team. Embedding a v1 changelog signals a one-time contribution. The author acknowledgment is better suited to git history.

```suggestion
```

Author: Removed the changelog and author/acknowledgment block from the page. (`253ec67`)
